Event Sourcing docs (#450)
dolittle/Runtime: Documentation/Concepts/event_sourcing.md

[Events]({{< ref "events" >}}) are facts and Event Sourcing is based on the incremental accretion of knowledge about our application / domain.  Events in the [log]({{< ref "event_store#event-log" >}}) **cannot be changed or deleted**. They represent things that have happened. Thus, in the absence of a time machine, they cannot be made to un-happen.

Here's an overview of Event Sourcing:

![Basic anatomy of event sourcing](/images/concepts/eventsourcing.png)

## Why not use CRUD?

CRUD (create, read, update, delete) is a traditional model for dealing with data in many applications. A typical example is to read data from the database, modify it, and update the current state of the data. Simple enough, but it has some limitations:

- Data operations are done directly against a central database, which can slow down performance and limit scalability
- Same piece of data is often accessed from multiple sources at the same time. To avoid conflicts, transactions and locks are needed

> - Without additional auditing logs, the history of operations is lost. More importantly, the [_reason_]({{< ref "#reason-for-change" >}}) for changes is lost.

Author: I basically took most of it from the [Microsoft Event Sourcing docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/patterns/event-sourcing#context-and-problem).

> - Without additional auditing logs, the history of operations is lost. More importantly, the [_reason_]({{< ref "#reason-for-change" >}}) for changes is lost.

Author: Also "why not CRUD" is there to set the stage for the real deal, "why event sourcing" that I try to answer with the advantages part.

> - Without additional auditing logs, the history of operations is lost. More importantly, the [_reason_]({{< ref "#reason-for-change" >}}) for changes is lost.

Reviewer: The content is fine, I just have a problem with the header. I like the Microsoft writeup.

> - Without additional auditing logs, the history of operations is lost. More importantly, the [_reason_]({{< ref "#reason-for-change" >}}) for changes is lost.

Reviewer: Since the content there in my opinion kinda describes some of the problems with a traditional approach.

### Advantages with Event Sourcing

- **Horizontal scalability**

>     - With an event store, it's easy to separate read and write operations to different databases.

Author: How about:
```suggestion
    - With an event store, it's easy to separate change handling and state querying, allowing for easier horizontal scaling. The events and their projections can be scaled independently of each other.
```
One of the cool things about event sourcing is it's scalability so I wanna get that out there somehow.

    - Event producers and consumers are decoupled and can be scaled independently.
- **Flexibility**

>     - The event store raises events and any number of [Event Handlers]({{< ref "event_handlers_and_filters" >}}) can process the events. This separation of concerns provides great flexibility and can be easily extended/integrated with other systems.

Author: Yeah, it's so easy to use the word "publish" here. How about:
```suggestion
   - The [Event Handlers]({{< ref "event_handlers_and_filters" >}}) react to events committed to the event store independently. This allows the handlers to be decoupled from the events.
```

>     - The event store raises events and any number of [Event Handlers]({{< ref "event_handlers_and_filters" >}}) can process the events. This separation of concerns provides great flexibility and can be easily extended/integrated with other systems.

Reviewer: What do you mean with "...decoupled from the events"?

>     - The event store raises events and any number of [Event Handlers]({{< ref "event_handlers_and_filters" >}}) can process the events. This separation of concerns provides great flexibility and can be easily extended/integrated with other systems.

Author: ```suggestion
   - The [Event Handlers]({{< ref "event_handlers_and_filters" >}}) react to events committed to the event store. The handlers know about the event and its data, but they don't know or care what caused the event. This provides great flexibility and can be easily extended/integrated with other systems.
```

- **Replayable state**

>     - The state of the application can be recreated by just applying the events. This enables rollbacks to any previous point in time.

Reviewer: Maybe add 're'?
```suggestion
    - The state of the application can be recreated by just re-applying the events. This enables rollbacks to any previous point in time.
```
